For four years, I was homeless. I lived under the bridge, the one that goes over the train tracks and out over the river. The howling train was my morning alarm. That, accompanied with the sound of college crew teams practicing in the water.

My makeshift mattress was good enough. The stack of rugs and wool blankets did its job. A cohort of wild animals and graffiti smothered structures kept me company. When I was up to it, I would leave my little habitat and walk all the way into town, hoping to scrounge up food with whatever money I had gathered. Sometimes, I would go downtown to the library and read some books. The library is warm in the winter time.

Eventually, I decided I couldn’t live this life anymore. I needed to get a job and move on with my life. So, I found the cheapest button-down shirt I could bargain at a flea market. I had no iron. All I could do was try and stretch out the wrinkles. With my wet and hand-combed hair I went to the diner on Hansen and applied for a job.

I have to admit, I lied about my experience. I told them that I had done this before and that I worked at all these different blue-collar jobs before coming here. And I guess I just got lucky because they gave me a job in the kitchen cooking food.

I never cooked a single piece of food up until then. Not a single piece of meat. Not even pasta or soup.

There was this middle aged lady, must’ve been early 40’s. Clearly she was from around these parts and probably was working this job for a long time. She enjoyed it, no doubt. She was sort of like my superior and she would help me out a little bit and train me. She knew that I lied. But she must’ve known how bad I needed this job. I couldn’t even slice a goddam bell pepper right. This lady, her name I wish I could remember, she really saved me.

She never said a word to the manager. And I know sometimes I would make her mad because I couldn’t do anything right, but she was so patient. She talked to this other guy who used to clean the pots and the pans at the end of the night. He helped me find an apartment. I had to lie to the landlord because I was only making 12 dollars an hour under the table. The work was intense in the beginning. Everything went so fast and sometimes I would mess up. But I wanted to be good. In my spare time I would read cookbooks and I would even go to the library to use the computers. I would watch videos to learn different cooking skills. I didn’t stop until I knew everything about how to cook.

I don’t work at that diner anymore. But I think back to that time and how I struggled and how I was able to get through it all. And that lady, I wish I could remember her name. If she ever reads this, I just wanted to say, thanks.
