The city exhaled its final sighs of heat and humidity. Skies were clear, wind was blowing, and August was dying. I perused sidewalks, passing old brick eateries and dive bars. Most walks are stale. My role is usually that of the blank pedestrian in a crowded urban landscape. My feet kept at a steady tempo. My posture was straight and head was level. However, my rhythm was interrupted when a scent in the air struck me. The scent escaped in small bursts through a screen of a bathroom window from an apartment. The apartment was at ground level.

If I could smell with my eyes, I imagine I would see bright reds and pinks blended together. It was a fragrance. It was something you might encapsulate in a bottle and use to make your house or your body smell good and clean. What made the scent so compelling was how it unlocked a collection of vivid memories. The smell was a recurring motif in another period of my life. Two years ago, September, to be exact. This scent was a gateway to that month of that year. Every time I inhaled, a collage of images, sounds, and emotions bloomed within.

These were pleasant memories. Otherwise, I would’ve carried on walking. These were memories of living in my old apartment. I breathed in again. And again. I inhaled the scent over and over until I was lightheaded. I wanted to go back to that time. I wanted to feel what I felt and see what I saw during those days once again. But with every whiff, the smell became fainter. It was as if I sucked it all out from the air. The scent would get softer, and then a slight breeze would enter stage left and give the fragrance new life.

I looked into the bathroom window, hoping to find a bottle with a recognizable brand. If I could know the source of the smell, I thought, perhaps I could own it. And then I could forever possess this totem of time travel.

I couldn’t resist returning the next day. And the next day. And then it became a daily ritual, standing motionless outside the window of a stranger’s bathroom, filling my nostrils with every molecule emanating from the source. Each refill would unlock new fractured images: laughter, smiles, music playing, games and conversations with fair-weather friends.

After a month of pure addiction, I took up the task of trying to find the name of whatever was producing this smell. I ran to the supermarket and ransacked the soap, the spray bottles, the deodorants, the shampoos, the detergents, and the dryer sheets. I pressed my nose against all those things, desperate to find the origin of the aroma.

Dryer sheets. I found it. This was it, I thought. I put the box to my face repeatedly until the smell gave me a headache. The colors were red and pink in my head once again. I carried the box to the cashier, eager to buy it. Right as I was about to pay, I reached into my pocket to find a vacancy. An empty void. I forgot my wallet. No money.

“No,” I mumbled.

“No, no, no, no, no!” I shouted.

The cashier flinched.

“My wallet!”

My heart fluttered. Sweat dripped from my brow. My mouth hung open.

A soft voice behind me said, “I can pay for it”.

I turned around to find an old man, hunched and wrinkled with a smile. No words left me.

“Don’t worry about it, son,” he said.

“Sir, you don’t have to…”

“No, it’s not a big deal. I’ve been there before”.

I said “thank you,” nearly a thousand times.

“In return, you can carry my groceries,” he said. And I did so, gladly.

I helped carry them all the way back to the man’s apartment. As we walked, I explained my connection to the box of dryer sheets. He was kind and understanding. And through all of this, I made a new friend.
