A low rumbling tone murmured in sporadic blips.

Huuum…huuum.

The murmur climbed until the whole band erupted together as one.

Two electric keyboards sat on the far left and far right side of the stage, respectively. They twinkled and chimed. The cymbals swelled until the cosmic bang collapsed in relief. The sound of lumber rattling on the drums disintegrated to nothing. There were two drummers, one on the far left, one on the far right. They were pillars of rhythm.

The boiling bass and whispering keyboards built back up again. Bubbling to the surface, they climbed limb by limb. And suddenly, a pause in a vacuum chamber.

BLOOOONG….

It all burst open, this time louder than before.

Thrice they climbed, before the trumpets entered. They chirped the same note, stretching tension in the sound. The snares galloped and galloped. Up, up, they went. Round and round. The fingers shimmied over the keyboards. The band fostered a tumbling momentum.

The trumpet wailed like a crying infant.

WWWAAAAAAH!

But the climb wasn’t over. More swirling keyboard spasms, percussion landslides, and trumpet howls. This was only the beginning of the chaos.

Sweat dripped down from face to mouth. A baritone saxophone concentrated on every note. His eyes were closed. His forehead wrinkled tightly. The instrument, deep and rich in tone, soliloquized.

Amidst its speech, the drums jabbed a steady beat. The cymbals pedaled fast, pushed forward by repeated hits to the snare. The rhythm was a trolley. We were its passengers. The road was featureless, and the destination, ipso facto, unforeseeable.

The keyboards played melodies, talked over by the trumpets. It was exciting and fast and it made my heart race a little bit. I barely sat still in my seat. My foot had the urge to twitch.

The one drummer fascinated me, the way he swiveled his hands around the kit. His body would contort in strange angles. He held back the beast behind the beat.

In front of the drummer were the keyboards plucking and punching away, up and down the black and white. I watched the mouths behind the winds blow air into the valves, creating sharp spikes in sound.

Meanwhile, a new member entered the ring.

Chords meandered over the band, spoken from an electric guitar. My mind’s eye struggled to find a place to fit all the noise. The bar was floating. My glass was empty with nothing left to drink.

I wanted the sounds to play on for infinity, but I accepted fate. The song died a slow death. Off into the sunset went each musical bandwagon. One by one they went until the audience could only hang on to a final breath of life from the juddering keys. The piece ended, and after a brief moment of shock, the crowd applauded.
