There I was, snoozing on the job and my dreams were loud. It was past three on a mild autumn night. I sat slouched in a chair, breathing in spurts, bottle of cola between my thighs. The sound of the rattling bell startled me awake. Without warning, I was ripped from the depths and brought back to the surface. My eyes fluttered open, heart was pounding a steady beat shooting life through my veins. I was upstairs in the firehouse and only dressed from the waste down in my uniform. I realized what was happening. This was my first real fire.

“Parker? Where are you? Let’s go!” the chief called from down below. The crew was sprinting out to the firetrucks.

I leapt out of the chair, pulled my straps up, threw my jacket on, and tied my boots. All the while, I couldn’t help but ask, “How did I get here?”. It’s only natural to ask yourself these questions when you’re half between asleep and awake. But then, I reminded myself that it was better here than overseas on the frontlines. You see, I became a firefighter to escape the draft and my mother. This was fate’s way of saying, “Here you go. This is what you asked for”.

One more sip of cola and then I slid down the metal pole to the garage. The rest of the crew were getting settled in the trucks. My buddy Randall was in the driver’s seat and so I hopped in next to him. I pretended to look like I wasn’t petrified. Engines turned on. We were in motion.

At night, the rural roads are quiet and desolate. Randall turned on the flashing lights without the siren as I stared at dark corn fields and silhouettes of little houses in the distance. They stood peacefully like murky images in a painting. Behind them was a clear sky backdrop. Each star was a lantern floating in a black sea.

“Were you sleepin’ on the job, Parker?” Randall turned to me and laughed. I smirked and shook my head.

An orange glow broke the darkness. Our truck sped down unpaved gravel towards the source of the light.

“Here we are. Another barn burner, am I right?” Randall said. I felt my heartbeat shake my body.

We arrived at the scene of a farm, subdued by waves of fire. The old man and his wife were out in their pajamas pouring buckets of water on the flames. When I opened the door to the truck, I was greeted by the strong smell of hamburgers.

Captain yelled, “Parker, get that hose!”

I pulled the long gray tube and ran into the grass towards a barn. The farmer’s wife was sobbing. There was a charred cow lying dead on the ground. The horses were galloping mad through the fields. And then suddenly, the hose in my arms turned on and water erupted from the nozzle. I held on with all my strength and smothered as much of the fire as I could.

The old couple gathered their chickens and goats to safety away from the torched barn. Piece by piece, the water swallowed the raging flames until they were squelched. Within several minutes, the job was done. But at the end of the night, the poor old couple lost two cows and had a lot of work to fix what burned down.

Later that week, I was sitting at my desk when Randall strolled in, holding a newspaper. He held it up and said, “Read this,” tossing the rag into my hands.

“POLICE PINCH PYROMANIAC” read the headline. There was a picture of a dirty middle-aged man in handcuffs. “Serial arsonist arrested by police in Colorado. Left a trail of barn fires in his path”.

The article explained how the man fled Omaha, running away from a warrant for his arrest. He thought it would be better to burn out than to fade away, as they say. Thankfully, justice was served.
