Rays of morning sunlight pierced through the curtains. The alarm across the room was rattling on the desk. My body rolled out of bed and my feet touched the cold floor made of cement. My hand gave the alarm a good whack and it shut up. Seven identical gray outfits stared at me from the closet across the room. Gray button down shirts, gray pairs of trousers, black pairs of shoes, and white socks lined up slot by slot. There are seven sets, one for each day of the week. I picked out the one for today and got dressed.

What’s fascinating is the thought that thousands of others are buttoning their shirt at the same time I am. Thousands of others are tying their shoes along with me, in near unison. This is the daily routine.

I’m still getting used to life here in heaven. Back when I was alive and living on Earth, people told me all these things about pearly gates and lush green gardens. These are lies.

First of all, there is no such thing as food in heaven. In fact, there is no need for it as we are never hungry. Secondly, everyone has a job in heaven. Don’t expect to come here and do nothing. You’re assigned a job based on the talents (or lack thereof) you had back home on that diseased walnut we call Earth. Every denizen of heaven is gifted one plain unfettered dormitory to be their own. Each is equipped with an extra long twin bed, a nightstand with an alarm, and a closet.

After I dressed myself, I hurried downstairs and outside. The streets were filled with people flowing like conflicting currents. We all got places to be, you see. It’s a fast paced world up here and there’s no time to waste.

On the corner of every two blocks is a circular sign with a big letter “B”. “B” meaning “Bogey”, our mode of transportation, here in heaven. Crowds of pedestrians walk between two parallel rails embedded in the ground that flank the sidewalks. The one nearest me is for Bogey tram cars going towards the outskirts division. The other for the inbound.

The tram cars barrel through one at a time. The 8:03 straddled the metal rail like a caterpillar on a wire. It rocked back and forth, jostling its passengers. Loud shrieks sounded as the wheels grinded against the rails. It arrived. The accordion door folded open and we squeezed aboard.

My job was to report to the wall. The one I’m talking about is the mile high concrete wall that wraps around the entirety of heaven. It may be daunting in appearance, but a closer look reveals fractures and scars. The wall has one purpose: to keep out those who didn’t make it to heaven. As you might imagine, not making it to heaven is a serious thing. This is the afterlife, which, unlike regular life, is infinite. If you don’t make it to heaven, you’re stuck. Sorry, pal.

Getting rejected from heaven can spark intense emotional reactions in people. Everyone wants to come here, but only those who are qualified are allowed in. The man in charge is very selective.

Every day, I come to the wall and scale a long treacherous ladder to then climb to the other side of the wall. That’s correct, I go to the other side. Why? Well, to clean it. The other side of the wall, the one that’s facing the void nothingness that isn’t heaven, is littered with graffiti and vandalism. There are cracks and wounds left over from all the people who couldn’t get in and were very angry about that. Every time someone gets rejected, the immediate reaction is to throw a tantrum and pound and kick against the wall. Others write profane words and slurs. And some spend days dousing the surface of the concrete with violent colors. I have to scrub it all off. The man in charge likes to keep it clean.

“Did you hear about the new guy?” my boss asked me.
I shrugged my shoulders. Apparently there’s a new guy in our group. I saw my coworkers traversing over to the wall, and near the front of the pack was a chipper looking guy with a smile that filled his face. He clearly just died. This had to be his first or second day in heaven. They always arrive cheery and excited.

“What are you gonna have him do?” I asked.

“Well, everybody hates scrubbing those dick drawings. So I figured I’d make him do it for his first day. That’ll set him straight”.
